README.md, before:

Overview
========

This is a set of [Chef](https://github.com/opscode/chef) cookbooks to bring up
an instance of an [OpenStack](http://www.openstack.org/)-based cluster of head
and worker nodes.  In addition to hosting virtual machines, there are a number
of additional services provided with these cookbooks - such as distributed
storage, DNS, log aggregation/search, and monitoring - see below for a partial
list of services provided by these cookbooks.

Each head node runs all of the core services in a highly-available manner with
no restriction upon how many head nodes there are.  The cluster is deemed
operational as long as 50%+1 of the head nodes are online.  Otherwise, a
network partition may occur with a split-brain scenario.  In practice,
we currently recommend roughly one head node per rack.

Each worker node runs the relevant services (nova-compute, Ceph OSDs, etc.).
There is no limitation on the number of worker nodes.  In practice, we
currently recommend that the cluster should not grow to more than 200 worker
nodes.

Setup
=====
To get going in a hurry, we recommend the Vagrant mechanism for building your cluster. Please read the [Vagrant Bootstrap Guide](https://github.com/bloomberg/chef-bcpc/blob/master/docs/building_with_vagrant.md) for information on getting BCPC set up locally with Vagrant.

If you are interested in building your cluster the hard way without Vagrant, this process and the documentation are in flux at the moment, but will be improved shortly.

BCPC Services
-------------

BCPC currently relies upon a number of open-source packages:

 - [Apache HTTP Server](http://httpd.apache.org/)
 - [Ceph](http://ceph.com/)
 - [Chef](http://www.opscode.com/chef/)
 - [Cobbler](http://www.cobblerd.org/)
 - [Diamond](https://github.com/BrightcoveOS/Diamond)
 - [ElasticSearch](http://www.elasticsearch.org/)
 - [Etherboot](http://etherboot.org/)
 - [Fluentd](http://fluentd.org/)
 - [Graphite](http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
 - [HAProxy](http://haproxy.1wt.eu/)
 - [Keepalived](http://www.keepalived.org/)
 - [Kibana](http://kibana.org/)
 - [Memcached](http://memcached.org)
 - [OpenStack](http://www.openstack.org/)
 - [Percona XtraDB Cluster](http://www.percona.com/software/percona-xtradb-cluster)
 - [PowerDNS](https://www.powerdns.com/)
 - [RabbitMQ](http://www.rabbitmq.com/)
 - [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/)
 - [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/) - Verified with version 1.7.2 and 1.7.3
 - [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - >= 4.3.x and 5.0 supported
 - [Zabbix](http://www.zabbix.com/)

Thanks to all of these communities for producing this software!

Commit message:

Ansible playbooks for hardware builds: - build bootstrap node - PXE boot cluster nodes - erase data disks - set roles and converge cluster nodes - other miscellaneous playbooks to come!
Also included:
- scripts to generate random cluster.txt files for testing, convert
  between cluster.txt and new cluster.yaml, and convert cluster.yaml to
  Ansible inventory files
- documentation on using the Ansible playbooks
- virtual hardware role to simulate hardware type (more to come here on
  using the Ansible playbooks on virtualized clusters)

README.md, after:

Overview
========
This is a set of [Chef](https://github.com/opscode/chef) cookbooks to bring up
an instance of an [OpenStack](http://www.openstack.org/)-based cluster of head
and worker nodes.  In addition to hosting virtual machines, there are a number
of additional services provided with these cookbooks - such as distributed
storage, DNS, log aggregation/search, and monitoring - see below for a partial
list of services provided by these cookbooks.

Each head node runs all of the core services in a highly-available manner with
no restriction upon how many head nodes there are.  The cluster is deemed
operational as long as 50%+1 of the head nodes are online.  Otherwise, a
network partition may occur with a split-brain scenario.  In practice,
we currently recommend roughly one head node per rack.

Each worker node runs the relevant services (nova-compute, Ceph OSDs, etc.).
There is no limitation on the number of worker nodes.  In practice, we
currently recommend that the cluster should not grow to more than 200 worker
nodes.

Setup
=====
To get going in a hurry, we recommend the Vagrant mechanism for building your cluster. Please read the [Vagrant Bootstrap Guide](https://github.com/bloomberg/chef-bcpc/blob/master/docs/building_with_vagrant.md) for information on getting BCPC set up locally with Vagrant.

If you are interested in building your cluster the hard way without Vagrant, there are Ansible scripts in `bootstrap/ansible_scripts` for creating a hardware cluster that can be applied to a virtualized cluster (manual work will be required). The Ansible scripts are documented at [Using Ansible](https://github.com/bloomberg/chef-bcpc/blob/master/docs/using_ansible.md).

BCPC Services
-------------
BCPC is built using the following open-source software:

 - [Apache HTTP Server](http://httpd.apache.org/)
 - [Ceph](http://ceph.com/)
 - [Chef](http://www.opscode.com/chef/)
 - [Cobbler](http://www.cobblerd.org/)
 - [Diamond](https://github.com/BrightcoveOS/Diamond)
 - [ElasticSearch](http://www.elasticsearch.org/)
 - [Etherboot](http://etherboot.org/)
 - [Fluentd](http://fluentd.org/)
 - [Graphite](http://graphite.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
 - [HAProxy](http://haproxy.1wt.eu/)
 - [Keepalived](http://www.keepalived.org/)
 - [Kibana](http://kibana.org/)
 - [Memcached](http://memcached.org)
 - [OpenStack](http://www.openstack.org/)
 - [Percona XtraDB Cluster](http://www.percona.com/software/percona-xtradb-cluster)
 - [PowerDNS](https://www.powerdns.com/)
 - [RabbitMQ](http://www.rabbitmq.com/)
 - [Ubuntu](http://www.ubuntu.com/)
 - [Vagrant](http://www.vagrantup.com/) - 1.7.4 or better recommended
 - [VirtualBox](https://www.virtualbox.org/) - 5.0.0 or better recommended
 - [Zabbix](http://www.zabbix.com/)

Thanks to all of these communities for producing this software!
